--- BEGIN national-park-reconstruction-act-FINAL.txt                          ---
--- This is the original text as-proposed of the National Park Reconstruction ---
--- Act, cosponsored by Rep. Claus and proposed on Nov. 18th 2023. I've con-  ---
--- verted it to a text file for ease of use, the content is unchanged.       ---
--- Please note that most words that are IN ALL CAPS are actually meant to be ---
--- formatted as small-capitals. Shouldn't change the meaning of anything.    ---

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

November 18th, 2023

Mr. STOŁÓW for himself (and Mr. CLAUS, of Jefferson) introduced the following bill;

A BILL
To better fund the reconstruction of our nation’s National Parks.

Be it enacted by the Congress assembled,



SECTION ONE – SHORT TITLE.
(A) This Act may be cited as the “National Park Reconstruction Act of 2023.”



SECTION TWO – DEFINITIONS.
(A) “SECRETARY” or “THE SECRETARY” shall mean the Secretary of the Interior, unless specified
otherwise.

(B) “The Director” shall refer to the Director of the National Parks Service.

(C) “THE FUND” shall refer to the National Park Reconstruction Fund.



SECTION THREE – THE FUND.
(A) The “National Park Reconstruction Fund” is hereby established as a budgetary item of the
National Park Service of the Department of the Interior.

(B) The Fund shall be appropriated $150,000,000 dollars annually, or $25,000,000 per
budgetary period.
(i) The National Park Service is not obligated to spend all monies appropriated to the
Fund in every budgetary period. Remaining funds shall roll over into the next budgetary
period.
(ii) The Congress may increase funding to the Fund as needed; the amount of funding
appropriated, including unspent monies, shall not be below $25,000,000 dollars per
budgetary period or $150,000,000 dollars annually.

(C) The Director shall use the funds appropriated to supplement reconstruction efforts in
National Parks.
(i) Applications of the funds include, but are not limited to
(a) compensation of staff involved in construction,
(b) replacement, refurbishment, repair, or purchase of construction equipment,
(c) construction of or repairs to roads and related infrastructure,
(d) and construction of or repairs to visitor and staff facilities.

(D) At the behest of the Congress, the President of the United States, the President of the
Commonwealth of Jefferson, the Governor of the North, or the Governor of Dixie, the Secretary
shall produce a report detailing the expenditures of the Fund.
(i) The Secretary shall detail current allotments of monies from the Fund, including any
left over funds from the previous budgetary period, and amounts of money spent during
the current budgetary period at time of request,
(ii) the National Park being served by each allotment, details of damages sustained,
and repair plans,
(iii) and the expected time to complete all repairs funded by the Fund, taking into
account the extra monies appropriated.



SECTION FOUR – ENACTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
(A) SUPREMACY. – Any provision of any statute that contradicts any section of this act shall be
struck and nullified.

(B) SEVERABILITY. – If any section or clause of this act is deemed unconstitutional or
unenforceable, it shall be struck. The remaining sections and clauses shall remain valid,
enforceable, and in effect.

(C) EFFECTIVE DATE. – The provisions of this Act shall come into force immediately.
